.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.TH APTD 1 "December 2009" aptdaemon "User manual"
.SH NAME
aptd \- package managing daemon proving a D-Bus interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aptd
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aptd
allows to perform package management tasks, e.g. installing or removing
software, using a D-Bus interface. The privileges are handled by PolicyKit
so the client application doesn't need to run as root. Furthermore aptd is
started by D-Bus activation only when an user calls a method.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d, --debug"
Show additional information on the command line.
.IP "-h, --help"
Show information about the usage of the command.
.IP "-r, --replace"
Replace another aptd instance if it is running.
.IP "-p PROFILE_FILE"
Write profiling data to
.I PROFILE_FILE
using Python's profiler. This is only of use to developers.
.IP "-t, --disable-timeout"
Do not shutdown the daemon after an idle time.
.IP "--dummy"
Instead of applying the changes to the system only show a progress. This option is only usable for developers to locate problems in client applications.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20dbus
Adds a small post update hook which will emit the org.debian.apt.CacheChanged signal on the system D-Bus to indicate that the cache has been changed and a possible running aptd instance should reloade its internal cache.
.TP
.I /usr/share/polkit-1/actions/org.debian.apt.policy
The PolicyKit definitions of the privileges used by aptdaemon, e.g. to install packages. To change the privileges please have a look at 
.BR PolicyKit.conf (1).
.TP
.I /etc/dbus-1/system.d/org.debian.apt.conf
The D-Bus configuration of the org.debian.apt name space.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
By default aptdaemon logs to the syslog facility AptDaemon. Furthermore you 
can use the -d option to get additional information on the command line.
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://launchpad.net/aptdaemon
.SH BUGS
You can report bugs at the Launchpad site of aptdaemon:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/aptdaemon/+filebug
.SH AUTHOR
Sebastian Heinlein <devel at glatzor dot de>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aptdcon (1),
.BR org.debian.apt (7),
.BR org.debian.apt.transaction (7),
.BR PolicyKit.conf (7)
