.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.TH org.debian.apt 7 "December 2009" "aptdaemon" "D-Bus Interface"
.SH NAME
org.debian.apt \- the main interface of aptdaemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
The daemon is accessed through the D-Bus object at
.IR /org/debian/apt .
Which provides the following interface.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS METHODS
.TP 
.B AddRepository 
.BI "AddRepository\t(in 's' " type ","
.br
.BI "\t\tin 's' " uri ","
.br
.BI "\t\tin 's' " dist ","
.br
.BI "\t\tin 'as' " comps ","
.br
.BI "\t\tin 's' " comment ","
.br
.BI "\t\tin 's' " sourcesfile ")"
.RS
.PP
Add a new repository to the sources list file. The repository has to define the type (e.g. deb or deb-src), uri (e.g. http://archive.debian.org/debian), the distribution (e.g. stable) and a list of components (e.g. main).
.PP
Optionally a comment and an alternative sources.list file can be specified.
.RE
.TP 
.B EnableDistroComponent
.BI "EnableDistroComponent\t(in 's' " comp ")"
.RS
.PP
Enable a component for all distro repositories, e.g. main or universe.
.RE
.TP
.B GetTrustedVendorKeys
.BI "GetTrustedVendorKeys\t(out 'as' " keys )
.RS
.PP
Return the GnuPG keys which are used to authenticate packages.
.RE
.TP
.B GetAtiveTransactions
.BI "GetActiveTransactions\t(out 'as' " tids )
.RS
.PP
Return an array of the currently queued transactions.
.RE
.TP
.B Quit
.br
.BI "Quit\t()"
.RS
.PP
Request the shutdown of the daemon. The daemon will finish a currently running transaction before.
.RE
.SS TRANSACTION BASED METHODS
The following methods are handled by transactions. By calling the methods a new transaction will be created for the task. The return value of the method is the D-Bus object path of the corresponding transaction. The transaction can be modified, to use an http proxy or to run in a specific language by setting the corresponding properties on the
.BR org.debian.apt.transaction (7)
interface. Afterwards the transaction has to be queued for processing by calling its Run method on the
.BR org.debian.apt.transaction (7)
interface.
.TP
.B UpdateCache
.BI "UpdateCache\t(out 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will fetch the latest meta data from the repositories and rebuild the cache of available and installed packages.
.RE
.TP
.B UpdateCachePartially
.BI "UpdateCachePartially\t(in 's' " sources_list , 
.br
.BI "\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will fetch the latest meta data from the repositories specified in the given sources.list snippet only and rebuild the cache of available and installed packages.
.RE
.TP
.B InstallPackages
.BI "InstallPackages\t(in 'as' " package_names ,
.br
.BI "\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will install the packages
of the given names.
.PP
Optionally the to be installed version can be specified by
appending a "=" and the version to the package name, e.g. "xterm=256-1".
.RE
.TP
.B InstallFile
.BI "InstallFile\t(in 's' " path ,
.br
.BI "\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly create transaction which will install a local *.deb
package file at the given
.IR path .
.RE
.TP
.B UpgradePackages
.BI "UpgradePackages\t(in 'as' " package_names ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will upgrade the packages of the given names to their latest version.
.PP
Optionally the to be installed version can be specified by
appending a "=" and the version to the package name, e.g. "xterm=256-1".
.RE
.TP
.B RemovePackages
.BI "RemovePackages\t(in 'as' " package_names ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will remove the packages of the given names.
.PP
Optionally the version of the to be removed packages can be specified by
appending a "=" and the version to the package name, e.g. "xterm=256-1".
.RE
.TP
.B UpgradeSystem
.BI "UpgradeSystem\t(in 'b' " safe_mode ,
.br
.BI "\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will upgrade the whole system.
.PP
If in safe mode only already installed packages will be updated. Updates which require to remove installed packages or to install additional packages will be skipped.
.RE
.TP
.B CommitPackages
.BI "CommitPackages\t(in 'as' " install ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tin 'as' " reinstall,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tin 'as' " remove,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tin 'as' " purge,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tin 'as' " upgrade ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tin 'as' " downgrade ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will perform a complex install/removal task at once. 
.IR Install ", " reinstall ", " remove ", " purge " and " upgrade
are lists of package names.
.PP
Optionally the version of the to be removed packages or the version of the
package which should be installed can be specified by
appending a "=" and the version to the package name, e.g. "xterm=256-1".
.RE
.TP
.B AddVendorKeyFromFile
.BI "AddVendorKeyFromFile\t(in 's' " path ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will install the public GnuPG key at the given
.I path
to the list of trusted software vendors. The list will be used to authenticate packages.
.RE
.TP
.B AddVendorKeyFromKeyserver
.BI "AddVendorKeyFromKeyserver\t(in 's' " keyid ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tin 's' " keyserver,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will download and install the public GnuPG key of the
.I keyid
from the given
.I keyserver
to the list of trusted software vendors. The list will be used to authenticate packages.
.RE
.TP
.B RemoveVendorKey
.BI "RemoveVendorKey\t(in 's' " fingerprint ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\tout 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will remove the public GnuPG key with the given
.I fingerprint
from the list of trusted software vendors. The list will be used to authenticate packages.
.RE
.TP
.B FixBrokenDepends
.BI "FixBrokenDepends\t(out 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will try to resolve unsatisfied dependencies by installing required packages or removing conflicting ones.
.RE
.TP
.B FixIncompleteInstall
.BI "FixIncompleteInstall\t(out 's' " tid )
.RS
.PP
Return the id of a newly created transaction which will try to complete previously failed installations by calling "dpkg --configure -a".
.RE
.SS SIGNALS
.TP
.B ActiveTransactionsChanged
.BI "ActiveTransactionsChanged\t('s' " active ,
.br
.BI "\t\t\t\t'as' " queued )
.RS
.PP
The signal is used to report changes of the currently running or queued
transactions. If there's any active transaction active will be an empty
string.
.RE
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://launchpad.net/aptdaemon
.SH BUGS
You can report bugs at the Launchpad site of aptdaemon:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/aptdaemon/+filebug
.SH AUTHOR
Sebastian Heinlein <devel at glatzor dot de>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR org.debian.apt.transaction (7),
.BR aptd (2),
.BR aptdcon (2)
